This document summarizes significant changes in the code, newest
change at the top.  "Significant" means a non-trivial functional
change or a change that affects how you use or install the
application.

----------------------------------------
DECnet/Python T1.1

This is a beta test version of what will beome DECnet/Python V1.1.

1.1-621: Additional changes

a. Implement PMR ("Poor man's routing") including transparent support
for connecting via PMR in the simple and asynchronous connectors.

b. Corrections to Phase II intercept support, and addition of an
intercept requestor option (for endnodes and by default for a Phase II
PyDECnet node).

c. Several applications included: ncp, rcclient, dnping, mirror-daemon

1.1-599: New version since there are significant visible changes in
this version:

a. New API, using full duplex JSON over Unix sockets. See doc/api.txt
for detailed descriptions.

b. The API now includes an interface to the Session Control layer, to
allow applications to send and receive DECnet traffic.  The
"applications" directory contains several example programs that use
this feature.  The existing pipe interface used for "file" DECnet
objects is still in place; it it essentially the session-only subset
of the general API.  Note that the previous JSON key "mtype" has been
changed to "type".  The samples (decnet/applications/mirror.py etc.)
have been updated to reflect this.

c. Two wrappers are provided to simplify writing programs that use the
API, one for one at a time request/response exchanges, the other using
the Python "asyncio" framework supporting multiple full duplex flows.
There are "mirror" sample programs in decnet/applications that show
both (as well as the original "raw" pipe API).

d. Phase II "intercept" support is much improved.  It appears to work
properly with TOPS-20 V4.1, at least if there is no packet loss.
Support for tracking outstanding packets and retransmitting them if
needed is to be done later.  The current code also does not handle
connections where only some of the packets have routing headers, which
is defined in the spec but apparently not used by TOPS-20.

e. Packet parsing performance has been improved across the board.  The
parsing of routing packets (hops/cost vectors) is more than 10x faster
than before.

f. The --api and --insecure-api switches on the "http" configuration
line have been removed.  Instead, API control is via a new "api"
line.  See doc/config.txt for details.

----------------------------------------
DECnet/Python V1.0

The latest V1.0 revision is rev 595 (which contains some bugfixes
beyond the latest change shown below)

1.0-586: Add loop node support (currently only for point to point
circuits).
Add support for DDCMP over synchronous links, using a USB-connected
synchronous framer.  See https://github.com/pkoning2/ddcmp for
hardware and software design files and documentation for that device.

1.0-584: Since the circuit configuration switches --destination,
--dest-port, --source, and --source-port were confusing for "listen"
mode circuits and other cases where one would naturally think in terms
of inbound traffic, this version introduces new switches
--remote-address, --remote-port, --local-address, and --local-port
respectively.  The old names still work but the new names are the
documented ones and are preferred.

1.0-575: Correct documentation omission: in rev 570, the circuit
configuration spec was changed so "0.0.0.0" is no longer recognized as
"any address allowed".  Instead, use an empty address or the special
value "*".

1.0-570: IPv6 support, which introduces new configuration file options
for circuits and http.  The old syntax for circuit destination
configuration specs still works but is deprecated (it's harder to use)
and does not handle IPv6 addresses.
PyDECnet now requires the psutil module.

1.0-556: Ethernet "tap" support for Linux is now included, thanks to
Keith Halewood for supplying the patch.  

1.0-552: Allow configuration records to override (supplement) earlier
ones with certain restrictions.  See doc/config.txt for details.

1.0-539: Remove the pydecnet script.  This is now created by the
installation procedure.  See doc/install.txt for details.
