License for PyDECnet
--------------------

1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the G. Paul Koning ("Author"),
and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and
otherwise using this software ("PyDECnet") in source or binary form
and its associated documentation.

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement,
Author hereby grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide
license to reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly,
prepare derivative works, distribute, and otherwise use PyDECnet alone
or in any derivative version, provided, however, that Author's License
Agreement and Author's notice of copyright, i.e., "Copyright (c) 2013
G. Paul Koning; All Rights Reserved" are retained in PyDECnet alone or
in any derivative version prepared by Licensee.

3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on
or incorporates PyDECnet or any part thereof, and wants to make the
derivative work available to others as provided herein, then Licensee
hereby agrees to include in any such work a brief summary of the
changes made to PyDECnet.

4. Author is making PyDECnet available to Licensee on an "AS IS"
basis.  AUTHOR MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, AUTHOR MAKES NO AND
DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF PYTHON WILL NOT INFRINGE
ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

5. AUTHOR SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON
FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A
RESULT OF MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON, OR ANY
DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

6. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material
breach of its terms and conditions.

7. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any
relationship of agency, partnership, or joint venture between Author
and Licensee.  This License Agreement does not grant permission to use
Author trademarks or trade name in a trademark sense to endorse or
promote products or services of Licensee, or any third party.

8. By copying, installing or otherwise using PyDECnet, Licensee agrees
to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.
